---
title: "Contract Languages III/25: Marieke Huisman: – 8 October 2025"
author: ulbrich
date: 2025-06-28
---

We are looking forward to a presentation by
[Marieke Huisman](https://mariekehuisman.personalweb.utwente.nl/).

**Time and Date:** *8 October 2025, 16:00 CEST*,

<!--more-->

As a follow-up to the March 2024 [Lorentz Center workshop on Contract
Languages](https://www.lorentzcenter.nl/contract-languages.html), we
will host a series of online presentations and discussions around
formal methods with contract languages, aligning with the LTC goal of
enabling information exchange between different formal systems.

#### Title

Contracts for Concurrent Software with VerCors


#### Abstract

Ensuring correctness in concurrent and distributed software is
notoriously challenging due to shared memory access, synchronization,
and potential data races. This talk introduces the language concepts
of VerCors, a powerful verification toolset designed to reason about
concurrent Java programs using permission-based contracts. We will
explore key concepts such as permission annotations, fork-join
concurrency, parallel blocks, locks, and atomics—each illustrated with
practical examples and verification strategies. 

The interactive tutorial will guide participants through hands-on
exercises, including verifying concurrent algorithms like parallel sum
and sparse matrix multiplication. Attendees will learn how to specify
and verify functional behavior and synchronization properties using
VerCors, gaining insights into how formal methods can enhance software
reliability in multi-threaded environments.

#### Slides

If you want to reiterate over the challenges and solutions:
- [Slides from the tutorial](/ltc/seminar/2025-10-08-contractlanguages_for_pdf.pdf)
- [VersCors online](https://vercors.ewi.utwente.nl/try_online/)

#### Participation

If you are interested in joining, drop a mail to [Mattias
Ulbrich](mailto:ulbrich@kit.edu) for the link.
